Scientific American

The Deadly Alternating Current
Source: Scientific American, Vol. 61, No. 11 (SEPTEMBER 14, 1889), p. 166
Published by: Scientific American, a division of Nature America, Inc.
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/26092779
Accessed: 15-10-2017 02:05 UTC

The Deadly Alternating Current
	The East River Electric Lighting Company, at its dynamo: house, East 24th St., this city, employs the Thomson-Houston system of electric lighting, using in all its outside lamps the direct current. But in the dynamo room is one machine which generates the alternating current, and this is used to supply the incandescent lights in the building, and, recently, for experiments by the Perry Motor Company. This one machine generates 1,000 volts power, and has not been long in the building. 
	On September 2, says the N.Y. Times, something went wrong with the switchboard connected with this machine, and Darwin A. Henry, the superintendent of construction of the company, undertook to set it right. He climbed up the short ladder used to reach the switchboard, and started in on his work. He had been thus engaged for about five minutes when he attempted to turn part way around on the ladder. In some way one of his feet slipped, and for an instant he was in danger of losing his balance. Instinctively his arms were thrown up to recover himself. One hand came in contact with the negative terminal on the board, and hardly had he touched it when the other had struck the positive pole. The effect was instantaneous. The unfortunate man’s hands remained as if glued to the death-dealing wire, his head dropped over on one shoulder, and in that position he remained for some moments. He did not utter sound. There were two other men, named Thomason and Smith, working in the room, and one of them after a few seconds caught sight of his chief resting apparently with his weight against the switchboard. Both men rushed to his assistance, but the man was dead. They tore his hands from the wires and lifted his body down and laid it on a bench. One of his hands—the right one---was terribly burned, the flesh having been consumed to the bone. The other hand was burned, but not so very badly. 
	Medical help was at once summoned. Dr. L. D. Henderson and Dr. W. C. Feeley were at the superintendent’s side within ten minutes, and worked hard in trying to restore animation, but they might as well have tried to put life in a stone. The injected, hypodermically, quantities of brandy.  Sylvester’s system of artificial respiration was called into use, and they tried with a galvanic battery to bring the man back from death.  But all efforts were absolutely useless, and after two hours of hard work the weary physicians were obliged to abandon their task and declare their patient dead.
There had not been a single evidence of life in Henry from the time he touched the wires. When the doctors reached him, the heart had ceased to beat and there was no sign of respiration.
	In the opinion of both physicians, Henry’s death was instantaneous, and, if the absence of any contortion either in body or face proved anything, it was a painless one. The burns in the hand, both the physicians and the employes in the building believe, were caused when the hands were torn away from the wires and after the man was dead. The separation created an arc, and without an arc there can be no burns.
Mr. Henry was about thirty years old, unmarried, and had been a practical electrical engineer from his boyhood. He was a capable electrician, and had much experience in handling electric apparatus, and was highly regarded by his employers.
	The final argument on the question of the constitutionality of the new electric execution law, a question which involves the disputed power of the alternating current to kill, will be held at Buffalo within a fortnight, and this case may have considerable weight in the argument. It is proposed to use an alternating current of from 1,500 to 2,000 voltage in these executions, and it is contended that that force would not be sufficient to kill. In this case a 1,000 volt current, even when only accidentally applied, did its awful work effectually.
